---
title: first rule of fight club
draft: false
tags:
  - nonfiction
date: 5-5-2025
---
the first rule of fight club is stop talking about race. no more discussions, tweets, books, podcasts, or documentaries about the black experience, race in america, racism, or "the culture." even my internal monologue, which can drone on and on trying to map every interaction to class, colorism, or colonial residue, needs to shut up. it’s a trap, a pit. an endless labyrinth of unresolvable words and emotions tied to a group identity that leads us nowhere. worse than nowhere, it distorts our view of ourselves. if you see yourself as a hammer (and i have), and every problem is a nail, you end up smashing a lot of delicate things. 

human beings, like most mammals, are social creatures with ingrained dominance hierarchies. we organize ourselves into groups, into tribes. we can't do anything about these impulses, so we have to remember they're only superimposed temporarily. today it's bipoc vs. white people, and tomorrow it's montagues vs. capulets again. we've had a million of these labels before and we’ll have a million more. a forever stream of new ways to say "us vs. them." it's strange. it feels real because it’s loud, but it’s not permanent. it’s not even yours. we've been given consciousness, for the briefest of moments, to guide us through the bullshit and to remind us that even though we can’t control what society labels us, we should never reinforce it. i have mixed feelings about black culture, which claims not to be a monolith yet demands a singular view of the world, lest ye be cast out. but black culture is not black people. we are thoughtful, nuanced, and have always wanted to be viewed as individuals. this is obvious and easy to do as long as we ignore the siren songs of race discussion trying to drag us into yet another debate about who can say the n-word and who can't or if black men with white women are part of 'the problem'

second rule: aim for mediocrity. jordan, maya, mlk, baldwin, these people were great and deserve to be honored, but you are not them. i am not them. they are literally the outliers, and we are the median (and that median is not good). black households are second-to-last in income, second-lowest in reading proficiency among 6th and 8th graders, and first in homicide-related deaths. obama is an anomaly; we are the norm. during the 2020 blm protests, there was a lot of '60s cosplay going on: fists raised in the air, afros grown out, malcolm x-ish cadences, and lots of people who had "had enough." they act like the '60s were only about civil rights activists, but what about the other brave black men and women? the non-marchers, the regular people who gave no rousing speeches, sang no cultural anthems, and whose images won't be on t-shirts and murals? were those people on the right side of history? will they even be remembered? there are millions of them—our grandparents and great-grandparents—who moved to poor neighborhoods where they were 'the first,' got regular jobs, and raised typical families. they didn’t seek sainthood or attempt to dismantle racism. they sought a job that paid the bills and the freedom to do as they pleased. this is the story of most immigrants, most americans, and most people. "all those moments will be lost in time, like tears in rain." the silent majority is filled with black people who don't rise to peaks or settle in valleys, they just try to live a decent life. this is what we need to model ourselves after. this is where our mimetic gaze should focus. stop looking for your michelle obama and just get a wife. stop talking about generational wealth and focus on getting out of debt, in this lifetime. no memes, no taglines, no slogans, and no more greatness. just be mediocre.

if we stop getting distracted by endless discussions around race and stop pretending we were all kings and queens in our past lives, we can improve black lives where they actually exists: in the median. how would that change our culture? we are only 13% of the population, yet we hold significant influence in america. so when we suffer, american culture suffers too, because we embody america in the purest sense. every other group has had some ties to their original culture and, through assimilation, infused it into america. we didn’t have that luxury. we are orphans—the cultural output of this great american experiment. in a way, our size is a blessing. there are a billion chinese people but only ~40 million of us, so each one of us can leave a bigger fingerprint on our culture. and black culture becomes american culture, which becomes global culture. that pipeline is real, and it compounds. to stop talking about race isn’t to ignore it or pretend it doesn’t exist. and to focus on mediocrity isn’t to reject greatness or stop being inspired by it. but we’re in a cultural stagnation and need to flash ourselves with those men in back neuralyzers. we need new visions. fresh ones. ones that don’t keep dragging us back into the same old loops. what can be, unburdened by what has been.

when i was fifteen, i went to ndola, zambia. as the plane taxied down the runway, i looked out the window and saw a sea of blackness. all black people, doing every kind of job, across every class. i felt a wave of culture shock wash over me. i was disoriented by this foreign yet beautiful sight. it was deeper than race though, it was the realization that billions of people are out there, living completely different lives than mine. they have their own airplanes, airports, pilots, baggage handlers. their own systems. their own lives. i had never thought about them, and they had never thought about me.
